2020-03-03
QUORA
  https://www.quora.com/Do-I-need-a-property-to-become-a-libertarian-Because-at-the-moment-I-m-kind-of-dependent-on-welfare-to-even-have-a-roof/answer/Kevin-Kershner/comment/130471939

Well, I’ve often wondered how
libertarians deal with the societies
into which they are born. What are
the limits of government in America
to you? It is not enough to just
opine about how things ought to be.
How do you deal with the present,
US Constitution and all?

Here is my conundrum. I am a self
professed libertarian and believe
the best government to ever exist
in the world is that based on the
Declaration of Independence and the
US Constitution. They are not
perfect, but they are  far ahead
of any other government definitions
I’ve ever found. What is a
social contract to libertarians?
Can a libertarian society tax itself?

In my experience, almost all
libertarians do not want the
government to solve  or even address
social problems. For instance,
libertarians agree there is a homeless
problem, but there are no libertarian
solutions proposed. The same is true
for health care and social security.
***libertarians*** all seem like
sterile Ayn Rand’s who care not
for their family, friends, neighbors,
or all of society. Indeed, libertarians
don’t seem to engage to discover
exactly why those “social
problems” exist or how they came
about. They all surmise that under a
libertarian governance, no such
problems would occur. I am not one
of that type of libertarian.

As long as the US Government has
an unlimited (!) power to tax.
that power should be used for the
good of every single person without
qualification. If taxing me hurts
you, that is bad. **{Today, all
taxes in America take from me and
give to you — all are bad in
my view}**. If I can either pay
a tax or pay for my own health
care, that would be a most benign
use of the unlimited power to tax.
If when I pay for my health care,
a negative income tax covers any
overdrafts, that too, would be a
most benign and benevolent use of
the unlimited power to tax. Using
a tax to convince people
to “store for winter” is
the least objectionable form of
government coercion I can imagine.

For example, you could have a choice:
Society (the social contract)
declares you pay the lesser of
X% or Y dollars into your own
private Health Savings Account
or give that money to the
government — your choice.
Your HSA and only your HSA pays
for for all of your health care.
Should your HSA be “overdrawn”
the US Government covers all of
your overdrafts without qualification.
Libertarians I know have no thoughts
on improving life in America or the
world as far as I have discovered.
What do you think of
this “libertarian-ish” solution
to America’s health care system disgrace?

I’m pretty sure these thoughts
are uninteresting to *libertarians*
— yet I muse.

