[2013-08-14]
  Health Care in America

  The only universal health care system
  I know of that worked was the US
  before the 1960's. No one was refused
  care then. I'm not sure such a simple
  system would work today. I am certain
  that when you have vote buying as a
  major factor determining which health
  care services the government will pay
  for, you have a very bad situation.

  Were I in charge of dictating a
  solution to America, for all 310,000,000
  American citizens I would:

  1. Require all to put 4% [X%] of pre-tax income into
     a personal health care savings account.

  2. Put 1% [Y%] of pre-tax income into catastrophic
     health care insurance that is guaranteed to
     be issued from private insurers and has a
     $4,000,000 [$Z million] lifetime limit (I'm
     not sure about the actuarial numbers on the
     upper limit. Today, $4M covers everyone I think).

  3. Not tax anything spent on health care
     including vanity healthcare (contacts,
     boobs, tucks, etc)

  4. Give each health care account overdraft
     protection guaranteed by state governments,
     and ultimately the Federal Government.

  5. All preventive and expected care would be
     paid by the individual to the doctor directly
     from his or her health care savings account. No
     insurance forms would be required. That would eliminate
     all benefits managers from doctors and dentists offices.

  6. Write the law so it could NEVER become any
     form of pay as you go scheme like today's
     unsustainable Social Security scheme.

  I might have missed something, but if
  those 6 things could become the
  infrastructure of the health care
  business, most of America's health
  care problems would disappear. I can
  think of no problem ostensibly
  addressed by PPACA, Medicare or
  Medicaid that would not be better
  addressed by those 6 items.

  With such empowerment, ObamaCare, Medicare
  Medicaid would be eliminated as
  well as most of the “health
  insurance” industry. When a
  government empowers individuals,
  America wins. When a government
  uses price controls to try to
  run the health care economy people die.

  SUMMARY:

  Here is what the uninformed American would see:

      I need to go to a doctor for this pain. I call the
      doctor of my choice, make an appointment, go to the doctor
      on the appointed date, we (me and the doctor) figure out
      a therapy, as I walk out of the doctor’s office, I pay
      with cash or a check and I am done. I do that as often as
      I need to. “I” am any of 310,000,000 Americans.
