
Version 1.0
Feb 29, 2020

USACare discussion

This plan started out as a file named "egbcare.txt".
Over time since I documented this plan, it has
changed names a number of times. it is now
called USAcare. I came to the conclusion that self
promotion was bad form.

The problem I have with all other plans
is that government is not as far out of
the picture as possible.

Employers would be eager to support USACare.
They would give a one time "raise" to their
employees (simply giving the medical money
to the employee instead to an insurance
company) costing them nothing and be
completely free of health care worries/expenses
for their employees forever after.

Employers would lose no money on the USACare
plan either. Employers have had a tax loophole
since 1943 and now that money is still spent
(given instead to the employee) but there is
the same tax break (employee expenses are
expenses). No change to employers' income,
taxes, or expenses.

When I asked IBM how much I cost IBM for
health care in 2009 or so, my question
went to the VP of the division than
handles employee health care -- HR. A
person was assigned to answer the question
and if I recall correctly, I cost IBM
$12,000/yr for me, my wife, and one
dependent. Under USACare that money is
given to the employee, is an expense
to the company, is not taxed, and IS
NOT a windfall gift to companies for
every single employee under USACare.
The money goes for the exact same
purpose with all the overhead of
"insurance" removed.

USAcare solves a problem immediately.
All other "improvements" to todays
federally run health care complexify it
even more than it is now. One proposed
solution disengages the federal government
and hands all the federal dollars over to
states to solve their own health care
problems. While that might have worked in
1930 or so, the tansition to such a system
today would take years, lead to new complexities
amoung the 50 states, and be disruptive
to all who are today comfortable with their
health care plans.

USACare brings the free market to health
care. Every single citizen will want to keep
as much money in his or her HSA as possible.
Each will seek out economically efficient
health care solutions because there is a
direct personal benefit -- it is their
money. Under no other plans will any
citizen know what to expect when the bill
becomes law. USACare is a solution, not
a proof of failure of American Health care.

USACare eliminates the entire concept
of health care insurance from the private
and public sector. Adjustment of savings
parameters and what is covered are the
only knobs on the USACare free market engine.


I'm trying to poke holes in USACare, but
I can't find anything convincing that
cannot be eliminated by simply adjusting
some of the parameters. Problems I have
found include:
what to do with all the employees in
health insurance (both government and
private); how to reduce the annual
increases in drug costs; how to lower
the price of preventive medicine (an
MRI per day keeps Cancer Away but
according to our former president, we
shouldn't be doing so many MRI's because
they are so expensive); what to do about
all the regulations on doctors for reporting
to the federal government (I would say
eliminate all of them but then there might
not be a CDC or even FDA{another subject
for another time}); merely explaining the
relatively simple way USACare health care
in America (indeed in every nation) would
work for all; finding a true salesman to
sell it to the public.

With USACare, health care is not a right
but it is something the federal government
can "educate" individuals to do for
themselves. While not perfect, in a
world where the government has an
unlimited power to tax, using that
power to not take money away from people
but convince them to save for themselves
is not the worst idea in my view. All
other federal and state plans involve
taking money from people, managing it,
and then deciding who gets care and what
care. That is bad in my view, far worse
than the government simply telling me to
save my own money in my own account for
my own health care or give it to the
government. Do you see the difference?
Over the years I have listened to and
learned a lot from libertarians.
Curiously enough, I've also learned a
lot from progressives. I have come to
some conclusions:

1. Progressives are pretty good at
   spotting social problems that
   ought to be corrected.

2. No progressive solution to the
   social problems they discover
   has ever produced a net
   positive result that I have found.

3. Libertarians are spot on accurate
   in identifying government over reach.

4. Libertarians never engage to
   actually solve a social problem
   even though they agree with the
   progressives that the problem
   ought to be corrected (#1).

I am a libertarian, that hates the
unlimited power to tax and
tentatively considers that power a
flaw in the US Constitution. However,
I love the Declaration of Independence
and US Constitution (Amendments and
all - some of which I would repeal).
Above all, I love the rule of law.
That said, the American government
can with an absolute minimum of
coercion bring universal health care
to all citizens with something as
simple as a plan like USACare.

egb

